# Recognizing-Handwritten-Digits-with-Scikit-learn-under-Data-Analytics-using-Python

Data analytics is the science of analyzing raw data in order to make about that information. Analytics is the systematic computational analysis of data or statistics. It is used for the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in data. It also focus on applying data patterns towards effective decision making. It can be valuable in areas rich with recorded information; analytics relies on the simultaneous application of statistics, computer programming and operational research to quantify performance .Data analysis is not limited to numbers and strings, because images and sounds can also be analyzed and classified.
Scikit-learn (formerly scikits.learn and also known as sklearn) is a free software machine learning library for the Python programming language. Scikit-learn provides a range of supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms via a consistent interface in Python. It features various classification ,regression and clustering algorithms including support vector machine ,random forest, gradient boosting, k-means and DBSCAN, and is designed to interoperate with the Python numerical and scientific libraries NumPy and SciPy. Here we are going to analyze the digits data-set of the Sci-Kit learn library. We are going to train a Support Vector Machine(SVM) and then we will be predicting the values of a Unknown Handwritten digits. The for the explanation: https://medium.com/@vaishudesai29/recognizing-handwritten-digits-with-scikit-learn-under-data-analytics-using-python-8433261322cb
